# ADR 002: Inter-Process Communication 
For maximum **Flexibility**, the BBS will be developed as a collection of small,
independently-deployable services (microservices).  This raises the question of
how those services should communicate amongst themselves, with implications for
the **Security**, **Responsiveness**, **Low Run Cost**, and **Observability** of the system.

## Decision 
Services will communicate directly to other services they need to use, without the use of an intermediary like a queue or a service bus. 

Services communicating in a Remote Procedure Call pattern will use gRPC.

We will use the Cilium Service Mesh to secure and observe all internal communication.

## Rationale 
There are a wide range of possible ways to communicate between components of a
system.  We must consider not only the specific protocols to be used, but also
the wider communication patterns within the system.

### Rejected: Message Queues and System Busses
The BBS is a system designed to be used interactively.  Therefore,
**Responsiveness** is a primary concern.  Queuing messages between components in
any way would introduce unacceptable delay, especially under high load.  Adding
an extra hop to all communications would likewise lead to unacceptable latency.
Therefore, all services that need to communicate will do so directly.

### Chosen: Cillium Service Mesh
A service mesh can be extremely useful for the **Security** and
**Observability** of a system composed of microservices.  It can ensure that all
communications between components are authenticated and authorized, and also
provide invaluable metrics about those communications.  However, most service
meshes introduce at least one extra hop to all communications, along with the
latency that we can not accept.

Cillium Service Mesh can provide the same **Security** and **Observability**
wins much more efficiently by performing mutual authentication out of band.  For
HTTP connections, Cillium adds only 0.5ms additional latency.  As the latency
range to feel "instantaneous" is 100-200ms, this is a small price to pay in
**Responsiveness** for the benefits.

### Chosen: gRPC

In further pursuit of **Responsiveness**, we must consider the protocol and
encoding formats used for data exchange.  While human readable formats are very
valuable for **Observability**, these formats must be serialized and
deserialized into machine-usable formats during each inter-component
communication (and again if there is a reply!).  Not only does this diminish the
system's **Responsiveness**, the extra CPU time spent on this
serialization/deserialization increases our **Low Run Cost** quite a bit.
Therefore, we must bid farewell to human-readable data formats.

The gRPC protocol uses the binary Protobuf format that is much more efficient to
serialize and deserialize.  In addition, it embraces HTTP/2 to decrease latency
even further.

## Status
Accepted

## Consequences
Using gRPC will improve the **Responsiveness** and **Low Run Cost** of the
system.  However, it will become less **Observable** by using a data interchange
format that is not human-readable.

Using Cilium Service Mesh will improve the **Security** of the overall system,
at a relatively small cost of **Responsiveness**.  This does force us to adopt
Kubernetes as an orchestrator, but we already decided to do that (see ADR 004).

Communicating directly between services instead of using an intermediary like a
message queue limits our other architectural options.  However, it is essential
for achieving the **Responsiveness** of the system, especially under load.
